apps/docs/content/docs/custom-ui/modal.mdx, before:

---
title: Modal
description: A comprehensive modal system with dialog and responsive variants for different screen sizes and use cases.
component: true
links:
  doc: https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dialog
  api: https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dialog#api-reference
---

<ComponentPreview
  name="modal"
  description="A comprehensive modal system with dialog and responsive variants"
  align="center"
/>

## Usage

The modal system is already available in your project. You can use it by importing the components and hooks:

```tsx
import { 
  DialogModal, 
  ResponsiveModal, 
  ModalManager,
  useModalContext 
} from "@workspace/custom-ui"
```

<ComponentSource
  name="modal"
  title="components/modal.tsx"
/>

## Modal Types

The modal system provides three main components:

### DialogModal

A standard modal dialog that works well on desktop devices:

```tsx
import { DialogModal } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = useState(false)

  return (
    <DialogModal
      config={{
        id: "my-dialog",
        type: "dialog",
        title: "Dialog Title",
        description: "Dialog description",
        size: "md",
        closable: true,
        view: <div>Your content here</div>
      }}
      isOpen={isOpen}
      onClose={() => setIsOpen(false)}
    />
  )
}
```

### ResponsiveModal

A responsive modal that adapts to different screen sizes:
- **Desktop**: Uses Dialog component
- **Mobile**: Uses Drawer component

```tsx
import { ResponsiveModal } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = useState(false)

  return (
    <ResponsiveModal
      config={{
        id: "my-responsive",
        type: "responsive",
        title: "Responsive Modal",
        description: "Adapts to screen size",
        size: "lg",
        closable: true,
        view: <div>Your content here</div>
      }}
      isOpen={isOpen}
      onClose={() => setIsOpen(false)}
    />
  )
}
```

### ModalManager

A component that manages multiple modals using the modal context:

```tsx
import { ModalManager, ModalProvider } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function App() {
  return (
    <ModalProvider>
      <YourAppContent />
      <ModalManager />
    </ModalProvider>
  )
}
```

## Modal Context

Use the modal context to manage modals programmatically:

```tsx
import { useModalContext } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const { openModal, closeModal, isModalOpen } = useModalContext()

  const handleOpenModal = () => {
    openModal({
      id: "my-modal",
      type: "dialog",
      title: "My Modal",
      description: "Modal description",
      size: "md",
      closable: true,
      view: <div>Modal content</div>
    })
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={handleOpenModal}>
        Open Modal
      </button>
      {isModalOpen("my-modal") && (
        <p>Modal is open!</p>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Modal Sizes

The modal system supports different sizes:

- **sm**: Small modal (max-width: 24rem)
- **md**: Medium modal (max-width: 28rem) - Default
- **lg**: Large modal (max-width: 32rem)
- **xl**: Extra large modal (max-width: 36rem)
- **full**: Full width modal with margins

```tsx
// Small modal
openModal({
  id: "small-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  size: "sm",
  view: <div>Small content</div>
})

// Large modal
openModal({
  id: "large-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  size: "xl",
  view: <div>Large content</div>
})
```

## Non-Closable Modals

Create modals that cannot be closed by user interaction:

```tsx
openModal({
  id: "processing-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  title: "Processing...",
  size: "sm",
  closable: false,
  view: (
    <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
      <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-4 w-4 border-b-2 border-primary"></div>
      <span>Please wait...</span>
    </div>
  )
})
```

## Custom Styling

Apply custom styles to modals:

```tsx
openModal({
  id: "custom-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  title: "Custom Modal",
  className: "bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-50 to-indigo-100",
  overlayClassName: "bg-black/50",
  view: <div>Custom styled content</div>
})
```

## API Reference

### ModalConfig

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| id | string | - | Unique identifier for the modal |
| type | "dialog" or "responsive" | - | Type of modal to render |
| title | string | - | Modal title |
| description | string | - | Modal description |
| view | ReactNode | - | Content to display in the modal |
| size | "sm" or "md" or "lg" or "xl" or "full" | "md" | Size of the modal |
| closable | boolean | true | Whether the modal can be closed |
| onClose | function | - | Callback when modal is closed |
| className | string | - | Custom CSS classes for modal content |
| overlayClassName | string | - | Custom CSS classes for modal overlay |

### ModalContextType

| Method | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| openModal | function | Open a new modal |
| closeModal | function | Close a modal by ID |
| closeAllModals | function | Close all open modals |
| isModalOpen | function | Check if a modal is open |
| modals | object | Current state of all modals |

## Examples

### Form Modal

```tsx
const openFormModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "form-modal",
    type: "responsive",
    title: "User Registration",
    description: "Fill out the form below to create your account",
    size: "lg",
    view: (
      <form className="space-y-4">
        <div>
          <Label htmlFor="name">Name</Label>
          <Input id="name" placeholder="Enter your name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
          <Input id="email" type="email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
        </div>
        <div className="flex justify-end gap-2">
          <Button variant="outline" onClick={() => closeModal("form-modal")}>
            Cancel
          </Button>
          <Button onClick={() => closeModal("form-modal")}>
            Submit
          </Button>
        </div>
      </form>
    )
  })
}
```

### Confirmation Modal

```tsx
const openConfirmModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "confirm-modal",
    type: "dialog",
    title: "Confirm Action",
    description: "Are you sure you want to delete this item?",
    size: "sm",
    view: (
      <div className="flex justify-end gap-2">
        <Button variant="outline" onClick={() => closeModal("confirm-modal")}>
          Cancel
        </Button>
        <Button variant="destructive" onClick={() => {
          // Perform delete action
          closeModal("confirm-modal")
        }}>
          Delete
        </Button>
      </div>
    )
  })
}
```

### Loading Modal

```tsx
const openLoadingModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "loading-modal",
    type: "dialog",
    title: "Processing",
    size: "sm",
    closable: false,
    view: (
      <div className="flex flex-col items-center space-y-4 py-4">
        <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-8 w-8 border-b-2 border-primary"></div>
        <p className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
          Please wait while we process your request...
        </p>
      </div>
    )
  })
  
  // Auto close after 3 seconds
  setTimeout(() => {
    closeModal("loading-modal")
  }, 3000)
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use appropriate modal types**: Use `responsive` for forms and complex content, `dialog` for simple confirmations
2. **Provide clear titles and descriptions**: Help users understand the modal's purpose
3. **Handle modal state properly**: Always provide a way to close modals
4. **Use appropriate sizes**: Choose the right size based on content complexity
5. **Consider accessibility**: Ensure modals are keyboard accessible and have proper focus management
6. **Clean up on unmount**: Close modals when components unmount to prevent memory leaks

## Dependencies

The modal system depends on:
- `@workspace/ui/components/dialog` - For dialog modals
- `@workspace/ui/components/drawer` - For mobile responsive modals
- `@workspace/ui/hooks/use-mobile` - For responsive behavior

Commit message:

Refactor custom UI component structure by organizing files into dedicated folders for each component and adding variant demonstration files. Update documentation to reflect these changes, ensuring clarity in usage examples and enhancing the registry configuration for better component management.

apps/docs/content/docs/custom-ui/modal.mdx, after:

---
title: Modal
description: A comprehensive modal system with dialog and responsive variants for different screen sizes and use cases.
component: true
links:
  doc: https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dialog
  api: https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/dialog#api-reference
---

<ComponentPreview
  name="modal"
  description="A comprehensive modal system with dialog and responsive variants"
  align="center"
/>

## Usage

The modal system is already available in your project. You can use it by importing:

```tsx
import { 
  DialogModal, 
  ResponsiveModal, 
  ModalManager,
  useModalContext 
} from "@workspace/custom-ui"
```

<ComponentSource
  name="modal"
  title="components/modal.tsx"
/>

## Variants

<ComponentPreview
  name="modal-variants"
  description="نمایش variant های مختلف modal"
/>

## Modal Types

The modal system provides three main components:

### DialogModal

A standard modal dialog that works well on desktop devices:

```tsx
import { DialogModal } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = useState(false)

  return (
    <DialogModal
      config={{
        id: "my-dialog",
        type: "dialog",
        title: "Dialog Title",
        description: "Dialog description",
        size: "md",
        closable: true,
        view: <div>Your content here</div>
      }}
      isOpen={isOpen}
      onClose={() => setIsOpen(false)}
    />
  )
}
```

### ResponsiveModal

A responsive modal that adapts to different screen sizes:
- **Desktop**: Uses Dialog component
- **Mobile**: Uses Drawer component

```tsx
import { ResponsiveModal } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = useState(false)

  return (
    <ResponsiveModal
      config={{
        id: "my-responsive",
        type: "responsive",
        title: "Responsive Modal",
        description: "Adapts to screen size",
        size: "lg",
        closable: true,
        view: <div>Your content here</div>
      }}
      isOpen={isOpen}
      onClose={() => setIsOpen(false)}
    />
  )
}
```

### ModalManager

A component that manages multiple modals using the modal context:

```tsx
import { ModalManager, ModalProvider } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function App() {
  return (
    <ModalProvider>
      <YourAppContent />
      <ModalManager />
    </ModalProvider>
  )
}
```

## Modal Context

Use the modal context to manage modals programmatically:

```tsx
import { useModalContext } from "@workspace/custom-ui"

function MyComponent() {
  const { openModal, closeModal, isModalOpen } = useModalContext()

  const handleOpenModal = () => {
    openModal({
      id: "my-modal",
      type: "dialog",
      title: "My Modal",
      description: "Modal description",
      size: "md",
      closable: true,
      view: <div>Modal content</div>
    })
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={handleOpenModal}>
        Open Modal
      </button>
      {isModalOpen("my-modal") && (
        <p>Modal is open!</p>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Modal Sizes

The modal system supports different sizes:

- **sm**: Small modal (max-width: 24rem)
- **md**: Medium modal (max-width: 28rem) - Default
- **lg**: Large modal (max-width: 32rem)
- **xl**: Extra large modal (max-width: 36rem)
- **full**: Full width modal with margins

```tsx
// Small modal
openModal({
  id: "small-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  size: "sm",
  view: <div>Small content</div>
})

// Large modal
openModal({
  id: "large-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  size: "xl",
  view: <div>Large content</div>
})
```

## Non-Closable Modals

Create modals that cannot be closed by user interaction:

```tsx
openModal({
  id: "processing-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  title: "Processing...",
  size: "sm",
  closable: false,
  view: (
    <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
      <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-4 w-4 border-b-2 border-primary"></div>
      <span>Please wait...</span>
    </div>
  )
})
```

## Custom Styling

Apply custom styles to modals:

```tsx
openModal({
  id: "custom-modal",
  type: "dialog",
  title: "Custom Modal",
  className: "bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-50 to-indigo-100",
  overlayClassName: "bg-black/50",
  view: <div>Custom styled content</div>
})
```

## API Reference

### ModalConfig

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| id | string | - | Unique identifier for the modal |
| type | "dialog" or "responsive" | - | Type of modal to render |
| title | string | - | Modal title |
| description | string | - | Modal description |
| view | ReactNode | - | Content to display in the modal |
| size | "sm" or "md" or "lg" or "xl" or "full" | "md" | Size of the modal |
| closable | boolean | true | Whether the modal can be closed |
| onClose | function | - | Callback when modal is closed |
| className | string | - | Custom CSS classes for modal content |
| overlayClassName | string | - | Custom CSS classes for modal overlay |

### ModalContextType

| Method | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| openModal | function | Open a new modal |
| closeModal | function | Close a modal by ID |
| closeAllModals | function | Close all open modals |
| isModalOpen | function | Check if a modal is open |
| modals | object | Current state of all modals |

## Examples

### Form Modal

```tsx
const openFormModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "form-modal",
    type: "responsive",
    title: "User Registration",
    description: "Fill out the form below to create your account",
    size: "lg",
    view: (
      <form className="space-y-4">
        <div>
          <Label htmlFor="name">Name</Label>
          <Input id="name" placeholder="Enter your name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
          <Input id="email" type="email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
        </div>
        <div className="flex justify-end gap-2">
          <Button variant="outline" onClick={() => closeModal("form-modal")}>
            Cancel
          </Button>
          <Button onClick={() => closeModal("form-modal")}>
            Submit
          </Button>
        </div>
      </form>
    )
  })
}
```

### Confirmation Modal

```tsx
const openConfirmModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "confirm-modal",
    type: "dialog",
    title: "Confirm Action",
    description: "Are you sure you want to delete this item?",
    size: "sm",
    view: (
      <div className="flex justify-end gap-2">
        <Button variant="outline" onClick={() => closeModal("confirm-modal")}>
          Cancel
        </Button>
        <Button variant="destructive" onClick={() => {
          // Perform delete action
          closeModal("confirm-modal")
        }}>
          Delete
        </Button>
      </div>
    )
  })
}
```

### Loading Modal

```tsx
const openLoadingModal = () => {
  openModal({
    id: "loading-modal",
    type: "dialog",
    title: "Processing",
    size: "sm",
    closable: false,
    view: (
      <div className="flex flex-col items-center space-y-4 py-4">
        <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-8 w-8 border-b-2 border-primary"></div>
        <p className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
          Please wait while we process your request...
        </p>
      </div>
    )
  })
  
  // Auto close after 3 seconds
  setTimeout(() => {
    closeModal("loading-modal")
  }, 3000)
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use appropriate modal types**: Use `responsive` for forms and complex content, `dialog` for simple confirmations
2. **Provide clear titles and descriptions**: Help users understand the modal's purpose
3. **Handle modal state properly**: Always provide a way to close modals
4. **Use appropriate sizes**: Choose the right size based on content complexity
5. **Consider accessibility**: Ensure modals are keyboard accessible and have proper focus management
6. **Clean up on unmount**: Close modals when components unmount to prevent memory leaks

## Dependencies

The modal system depends on:
- `@workspace/ui/components/dialog` - For dialog modals
- `@workspace/ui/components/drawer` - For mobile responsive modals
- `@workspace/ui/hooks/use-mobile` - For responsive behavior
